# Sentence Structures

## Subject-Object Structure
Every Japanese sentence has the same core.

Main carriage | Engine
:---: | :---:
A | B

Let's picture it as a train. This train has two elements: A and B. **"A" is the main carriage and "B" is the engine**. The engine is what makes the sentence "move", it is what makes it "work". The main carriage has to be there because  without the main carriage there's nothing for the engine to move. **"A" and "B" are the core of every Japanese sentence**. If you can understand this, you can understand every sentence, no matter how complicated it becomes. We can add more **non-core carriages** to: say more about A; say more about B; combine sentences together to make complex sentences. So what are A and B? Let's begin by reminding ourselves that in any language, there are only two types of sentences.

Sentence type | Example sentence
:---: | :---:
A does B | "Sakura walks"
A is B | "Sakura is Japanese"

We can put these into past tense, put them into negative, turn them into questions, we can say more about A, we can say more about B; but ultimately, every sentence boils down to one of these: "A is B" or "A does B". Let's look at how we do this in Japanese. 

### 1. A does B
In Japanese, if we want to say "Sakura walks" (A does B), then "A" is "Sakura" (the main carriage) and "B" is "walks" (the thing Sakura does; the engine of the sentence). In Japanese, "Sakura" is 「さくら」, and "walk" is「歩く」(あるく). Lastly, we need one more thing to denote that "A" is *the main carriage*: the 「が」 particle. We will have a more in-depth explanation about particles in a later section. Putting everything together, to say **"Sakura walks"** in Japanese is:

**「さくらが歩く」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B"
:---: | :---:
さくら  が | 歩く

Notice that the particle 「が」 is bundled with the "A" carriage in the table above. This is because 「が」 is marking the "role" of "Sakura" as *the main carriage* in the context of the sentence.

### 2. A is B

#### 2.1. A is B (describing what "A" is by using a noun)

Let's take a look at an "A is B" sentence: "Sakura is Japanese". "A" will be "Sakura" and "B" will be "Japanese" (as in the nationality). In Japanese (language), "Japanese" (nationality)  is 「日本人」(にほんじん). Once again, we need the 「が」 particle to denote that "Sakura" is the main carriage "A". Lastly, we also need to "bundle" one more "thing" to the engine "B": the copula 「だ」. Putting everything together, to say **"Sakura is Japanese"** in Japanese is:

**「さくらが日本人だ」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ
:---: | :---:
さくらが | 日本人だ

A **copula** is a word that equates one thing to another. It is a **one-way** equality sign. In other words, the sentence 「さくらが日本人だ」 means "Sakura belongs to the set of Japanese people". Sakura is a Japanese person but a Japanese person is not necessarily Sakura. We will have a more in-depth look at the copula in a later section.

#### 2.2. A is B (describing what "A" is by using an adjective)

In Japanese, all adjectives end with the kana 「い」. Let's take a look at an easy example sentence: "Pen is red". "A" is "pen", and "B" is "red". In Japanese, "pen" is 「ペン」, and "red" is 「赤い」(あかい). Once again, we need the 「が」 particle. Putting everything together, to say **"Pen is red"** is:

**「ペンが赤い」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B"
:---: | :---:
ペンが | 赤い

Now, you might have noticed that we don't have the copula 「だ」 on this sentence. Why is that? Because 「赤い」 doesn't mean "red", it means "is red". The copula is built into the adjective, which is the 「い」 part of the adjective. If we say:

❌ **「ペンが赤いだ」**

then it would mean "Pen is red is", which is unacceptable because there can only be one copula per clause. If you don't know what a *clause* is, think of it as a "sentence" for now.

### Summary
To summarize, there are 3 types of engines.

Engine name | Used for | Sentence type
:---: | :---: | :---:
う-engine | verb | A does B
だ-engine | noun | A is B
い-engine | adjective | A is B

## Three types of engines

As we learned in the introduction section, there are 3 types of engine in our train analogy.

Engine name | Used for | Sentence type
:---: | :---: | :---:
う-engine | verb | A does B
だ-engine | noun | A is B
い-engine | adjective | A is B

Let's have a deeper look at each engine.

### 1. Verbs | う-engine

Let's start by looking at verbs in the "dictionary form" or more accurately "non-past tense" (We will explain "non-past tense" in a later section). Verbs can be divided into two categories: __*ru-verbs*__ and __*u-verbs*__. All *ru-verbs* end in 「る」, while *u-verbs* can end in any kana with the *u-vowel* 「う」, including 「る」. Therefore, if a verb does **not** end in 「る」then it must be an *u-verb*.

*Side note: Notice that all verbs in the "dictionary form" end with an「う」u-vowel sound. Hence the name of this engine: the う-engine.*

---
**Quick tip**

For verbs ending in 「る」, if the vowel sound preceding the 「る」 is an /a/, /u/ or /o/ vowel sound, it will **always** be an *u-verb*. Otherwise, if it is /i/ or /e/, it will be a *ru-verb* **in most cases**. If you're unsure which category a verb falls into, you can verify with most dictionaries.

- Example of *u-verb*: 「分かる」（わかる）. The preceding kana of「る」is「か」, which has an /a/ vowel sound. Therefore it is an *u-verb*.
- Example of *ru-verb*: 「食べる」（たべる）. The preceding kana of「る」is「べ」, which has an /e/ vowel sound. Therefore it is likely to be a *ru-verb*. It is, in fact, a *ru-verb*.
- Example of *u-verb*: 「知る」（しる）. The preceding kana of「る」is「し」, which has an /i/ vowel sound. Therefore it is likely to be a *ru-verb*. However, it's actually an *u-verb*.
---

Example of verbs:

Example of ru-verbs | Example of u-verbs | Irregular verbs
:---: | :---: | :---:
⾷べる | 分かる | する
⾒る | 話す | 来る
寝る | 聞く
起きる | 泳ぐ
考える | 遊ぶ
教える | 待つ
出る | 買う
いる | ある
着る | 死ぬ

It is important to make this distinction of *ru-verbs* vs *u-verbs* because they conjugate differently.

**There are two verbs that are considered as irregular: 「する」and「来る」.** The reason is that these two verbs do not conjugate in quite the same way as the other two categories do. We will learn about conjugations in a later section.

### 2. Nouns | だ-engine

A copula is a word that equates one thing (a noun) to another thing (another noun) but it is a one-way equality sign. In other words, "A is B" but "B is not necessarily A"; "A belongs to the set B"; "A is part of the set B". In Japanese, the hiragana 「だ」 is used as copula. It attaches to a **noun** "B" (hence, we call it だ-engine) to describe the main carriage "A", with the meaning of "A is B".

Note: 声優（せいゆう） means voice actor/actress.

**「アリスが声優だ」**  

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ 
:---: | :---:
アリスが | 声優だ

*Alice is a voice actress*

In this example, the 「だ」 copula is attached to 「声優」, and it is describing the main carriage "A", which is 「アリス」. "Alice is a voice actress" but not all voice actresses are Alice. "Alice belongs to the **set** of voice actors/actresses" but not all voice actors/actresses are Alice. This is why we call it the one-way equality sign.

Sometimes, the **set** can have only one element. If we say:

**「その人がアリスだ」**  

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ 
:---: | :---:
その人が | アリスだ

*That person is Alice*

This means "that person" (main carriage "A") belongs to a *set with one element* called "Alice" (engine "B").

---

**How do native speakers use the copula 「だ」?**  
In casual, everyday conversation, you will most likely hear native speakers say "A is B" *without* saying the copula 「だ」. For example, a dialogue between two friends can look like:

Note: 「元気」 means "in good health"

Person A: 元気？  
Person B: うん、元気。

*Nautral Englsh*  
Person A: Are you OK? / Are you fine? / How are you doing? / How are you?  
Person B: Yeah, I'm OK. / Yeah, I'm fine. 

To fit this dialogue into our train analogy, it will look like this:

**Person A**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + ? 
:---: | :---:
Ø が | 元気?

**Person B**

A simple "yes" | main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ
:---: | :---: | :---:
うん、 | Ø が | 元気

Notice the "zero pronoun" (Ø) in both lines. We will see what's going on there in a later section called "Invisible "A" carriage in sentences".

In person A's line, when *asking* a question, you can't use the copula. Remember that the copula *defines*/*states*/*declares* that "A is B". If you're asking a question, that means you *don't know* if "A is B". Therefore, you ommit the copula and simply say "B?" when you want to ask a question. We will learn more about how to ask questions in a later section.

The important point I want to bring up right now is person B's line. Person B said "Yes, I **am** OK" 「うん、元気。」 in Japanese without actually saying the copula 「だ」. This is very common in casual conversations, but that does not mean that the copula is not necessary to make a complete "A is B" sentence.

Just like in any other language, casual, everyday conversations don't always follow grammar rules perfectly. However,

1. knowing the rules and the correct way of saying things, and 
2. knowing how native speakers break those rules 

are essential to 

1. understanding what you're listening and/or reading (input), and
2. speaking and/or writing naturally -sounding like a native speaker- (output).

**So when do native speakers actually say 「だ」?**  
Well, the main difference is that a *declarative* statement -such as explicitly saying 「だ」 in an "A is B" sentence- makes the sentence sound more emphatic and forceful in order to make it more... well *declarative*. Therefore, it is more common to hear men use 「だ」 at the end of sentences. Dropping the 「だ」 at the end of sentences makes it sound more "soft" and therefore it is more common to hear women dropping the 「だ」.

**Let me re-emphasize that this is in the context of *casual, everyday conversation*. A *complete and proper sentence* still requires the copula 「だ」in an "A is B" sentence.**

### 3. Adjectives | い-engine

We call this engine the い-engine because all adjectives in Japanese end with the kana 「い」.

**「ペンが赤い」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B"
:---: | :---:
ペンが | 赤い

*Pen is red*

As we learned in a previous section, we don't need the 「だ」 copula here because the 「い」 part of the adjective already serves the function of a copula. In other words, 「赤い」 doesn't mean "red", it means "is red". To re-emphasize, if we say:

❌ **「ペンが赤いだ」**

then the sentence would mean "Pen is red is", which is unacceptable because there can only be one copula per clause.

**If 「い」 is the copula of adjectives, do native speakers drop the 「い」 in casual conversations?**  
No.

## Invisible "A" carriage in sentences

We learned how every Japanese sentence has the same core. The main carriage "A" (which is denoted by the「が」particle) and the engine "B". While every sentence has the same two core elements, "A" and "B", you can't always see both of them. **You can always see the engine "B", but sometimes you can't see the main carriage "A"**. Why not? Because it became the invisible carriage. Even though you can't see it, it's still there. Understanding this is the key to understanding Japanese. So, what is the invisible carriage? In English, the closest equivalent is "it". Let's begin by seeing what "it" does in English. Let's take this sentence as example:

**"The ball rolled down the hill. When the ball go to the bottom, the ball hit a sharp stone. The ball was punctured and all the air came out of the ball."**

Would anybody say it like that? Most likely not, because once we have established what we are talking about, we replace it with "it". So we say:

**"The ball rolled down the hill. When it got to the bottom, it hit a sharp stone. It was punctured and all the air came out of it".**

Now, let's suppose a small child tries to say the same sentence but ends up saying:

**"Ball rolled down hill, got to bottom, hit sharp stone, got punctured, all the air came out".**

Now, is that difficult to understand? No, it's not. Because, in fact, we don't need to use the "it" marker everytime, over and over again. English grammar demands it but there's no actual communicative need to do it. And Japanese grammar doesn't demand it to begin with. "It" by itself means nothing because it can mean anything. You know what "it" is from context. If a small child came to the kitchen and said "Got really hungry. Came down to eat something", there's nothing confusing or difficult about this. The child meant "**I** got really hungry. **I** came down to eat something". In English, skipping the "I" is not a proper sentence, but in Japanese it is. All those English pronouns like "it", "she", "he", "I", "they", in Japanese can be replaced by the invisible carriage -the zero pronoun (Ø). But the important thing to remember is that it is still there. Alright, so let's look at how this works in Japanese. I might say:

**「日本人だ」**

and that means "I am Japanese". So the full sentence is:

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ
:---: | :---:
Ø が | 日本人だ

The zero pronoun (Ø) means "I" in this context. When the main carriage "A" is invisible, it will be represented as a zero pronoun in this guide.

At first glance, this sentence looks as if it only has an engine and no main carriage, but the main carriage is simply invisible. And we can say that "I" is the default value of the zero pronoun (Ø). However the context can define it as anything. For example if we hear a rustling in the woods and look over in the direction of it and I say:

**「うさぎだ!」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ
:---: | :---:
Ø が | うさぎだ!

that means 「Øがうさぎだ!」. In English it means "It is a rabbit!". 

"It" or "that thing we just saw towards the rustling in the trees", *that* is a rabbit. If I say:

**「土曜日だ」**

main carriage "A" + が | engine "B" + だ
:---: | :---:
Ø が | 土曜日だ

I'm saying "It is Saturday". What is "it"? "It" is "today". Or it could mean "tomorrow", or any other word, depending on the context. All these sentences are complete Japanese sentences, with two parts: 1. the main carriage "A" with the 「が」 particle, and 2. the engine "B". But in each of these cases, the main carriage is invisible - but it's still there.

This might sound like unecessary emphasis on the fact that the main carriage is still there even though it's invisible, but it will become much more important as sentences become more complex. Without a good understanding of this concept, they're going to start sounding extremely vague and hard to understand.

## Adding more carriages to the train

We learned in the introduction section that the **core** of every Japanese sentence is only composed of two parts: the main carriage "A"" and the engine "B". Let's try adding a **non-core** carriage to our hypothetical train: the 「を」 carriage. This 「を」 carriage contains one noun, which is bundled with the 「を」 particle. We will have a more in-depth look at particles in a later section. Let's look at an example sentence:

Note: 「私」（わたし）means "I"  
「ケーキ」means "cake"  
「食べる」means "eat"

**「私がケーキを食べる」**

main carriage "A" + が | を carriage | engine "B"
:---: | :---: | :---:
私が | ケーキを | 食べる

This means "I eat cake". The core of the sentence is "I eat" ("A" carriage + engine "B"). The 「を」 carriage is just telling us more about the engine, i.e. *what I eat*. Now, the interesting thing is that we may often see this being said like this:

**「ケーキを食べる」**

main carriage "A" + が | を carriage | engine "B"
:---: | :---: | :---:
Ø が | ケーキを | 食べる

As we learned in a previous section, this is another case of the invisible "A" carriage. We can't have have a sentence without the "A" carriage. We can't have an action being done without a doer. We can't eat something without an eater. If we say 「ケーキを食べる」, what we're really saying is 「Øがケーキを食べる」. The default value for Ø in the invisible carriage is "I". But, if we're talking about "someone else" at that time, then the context changes and Ø might mean that "someone else". 

**The key takeaway point in this section is that non-core carriages simply add more details *about* the core elements. These details can be things like describing the *where* I ate the cake, *with whom* I ate the cake, etc. However, the core will always be the main carriage "A" and the engine "B".**

## Topic-Comment Structure

We just learned in previous sections about Subject-Object Structure, which consists of:

Main carriage | Engine
:---: | :---:
A | B

There's another type of structure, which we are introducing in this current section, and that is the Topic-Comment Structure, which consists of:

Topic | Comment
:---: | :---:
X | Y

and the "Comment" part is actually the *Subject-Object Structure* we just learned. In other words:

<table style="border: 1px solid black">
  <tr>
    <th rowspan="2" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: middle; border: 1px solid black">Topic</td>
    <th colspan="2" style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">Comment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">Main Carriage</th>
    <th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">Engine</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">X</td>
    <td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">A</td>
    <td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">B</td>
  </tr>
</table>

or a simpler visualization of the structure would be:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th colspan="2" style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">Topic</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">main carriage "A" + が</th>
    <th style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black">engine "B"</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black"> - </td>
    <td style="text-align: center; border: 1px solid black"> - </td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Why is it important to make the distinction between the two structures?**  
Understanding the relationship and distinction between these two structures is the key to understanding the difference between the particle 「は」 and the particle 「が」, which a lot of Japanese learners struggle with. Again, we will have a more in-depth look at particles in a later section.
